GAN Vocoder: Multi-Resolution Discriminator Is All You Need
Jaeseong You, Dalhyun Kim, Gyuhyeon Nam, Geumbyeol Hwang, Gyeongsu Chae
MoneyBrain Inc., Seoul, Korea
fjaeseongyou, torch, ngh3053, goldstar, gc g@moneybrain.ai
Abstract
Several of the latest GAN-based vocoders show remarkable
achievements, outperforming autoregressive and ﬂow-based
competitors in both qualitative and quantitative measures while
synthesizing orders of magnitude faster. In this work, we hy-
pothesize that the common factor underlying their success is
the multi-resolution discriminating framework, not the minute
details in architecture, loss function, or training strategy. We
experimentally test the hypothesis by evaluating six different
generators paired with one shared multi-resolution discriminat-
ing framework. For all evaluative measures with respect to text-
to-speech syntheses and for all perceptual metrics, their perfor-
mances are not distinguishable from one another, which sup-
ports our hypothesis.
Index Terms : vocoder, text-to-speech, GAN
1. Introduction
Neural vocoder (i.e. neural network models that transform from
speech features to raw waveform) has been one of the most ac-
tive ﬁelds of study in the domain of speech synthesis. Modeling
raw audio is essential in vocoding, and it poses many difﬁcul-
ties: (1) a digital speech signal tends to be a sequence of ex-
tended length, which brings in complications of computation
and memory cost, (2) a speech signal is extremely shift-variant,
rendering a straightforward reconstruction loss difﬁcult, (3) the
receptive ﬁeld of a model should be extensive to catch long
dependencies in audio that are essential in generating low fre-
quency signals, (4) reconstructing high frequency components,
albeit being a key to ﬁdelity of synthesized speech, is not prone
to modeling due to their noise-like nature, and (5) the temporal
upsampling from mel spectrogram to waveform results in patt-
ernized artifacts, which are particularly audible.
Regardless of the hurdles, many effective vocoder models
have been proposed. The initial landmark success was achieved
by the autoregressive models [1, 2]. Their causal inductive bias
is elegantly in sync with the nature of speech signals, and they
minimize the data log likelihood directly. With the powerful
model assumption and the solid theoretical ground, autoregres-
sive models had been the best-performing vocoders for a long
time. Their subsequent knowledge-distilled variants are mostly
geared to lessen the computational overhead for training and
inference [3, 4].
To avoid the sample-by-sample causal inference or the use
of teacher models, parallelizable statistical models have been
devised. Particularly notable are the ﬂow-based vocoders [5, 6]
that shape a simple prior distribution into a complex data dis-
tribution conditioned on a mel spectrogram using a chain of in-
vertible operations. Although the constraint of invertibility al-
lows direct modeling of the data log likelihood, it also forces the
use of element-wise afﬁne transformation, which in compen-
sation for its simplicity, necessitates a massive WaveNet-like
module repeating many times. More recently, diffusion-basedmodels [7, 8] achieve impressive negative log-likelihood and
mean opinion score (MOS) by letting the network learn how to
denoise from a Gaussian noise to a target signal in an interactive
synthetic process.
On the other hand, Generative Adversarial Networks
(GANs) [9], although its strong potential had been demon-
strated in the ﬁeld of image synthesis, did not show a viable
performance as a vocoder until recently. Early attempts [10, 11]
suffered from severe upsampling artifacts. MelGAN [12], the
ﬁrst effective GAN vocoder, too could not reach the MOS val-
ues of the ﬂow-based models and the autoregressive models.
However, recent GAN vocoders made breakthrough im-
provements [13, 14, 15, 16, 17], often exceeding the previ-
ous state-of-the-art WaveNet on various metrics both qualita-
tively (e.g. MOS) and quantitatively (e.g. mel cepstral distor-
tion) while being orders of magnitude faster to train and to in-
fer. Their performances are so remarkable that, given a single-
speaker dataset of sufﬁcient quantity and consistent quality, one
might even claim that the problem of vocoding has been solved.
How do the latest GAN vocoders perform so eminently?
For each of the models, researchers underline many different
key factors for its success: generator architecture, discrimina-
tor architecture, loss function composition, and various train-
ing tricks. In this paper, we question their validity as decisive
elements. We instead hypothesize that the most important un-
derlying common factor behind the recent successes of GAN
vocoders is the multi-resolution discriminating framework, not
necessarily the aforementioned details. To demonstrate this
experimentally, we pair each of different generators of recent
GAN vocoders as well as our proposed generator with the dis-
criminator of HiFi-GAN [17] and report the outcomes in detail.
We encourage readers to listen to audio samples on the compan-
ion webpage1, where all the synthesized audios we use for the
MOS test are available.
2. Related Works
We take the multi-resolution discriminating framework of HiFi-
GAN as the baseline for three reasons: (1) structural sim-
plicity: since its multi-resolution discriminating framework re-
quires none but the ﬁnal waveform prediction from the gener-
ator (no additional intermediate generator features are needed
unlike in [16]), it is compatible with many different forms of
generator, (2) performance: given the reported metrics in [17],
it is currently one of the best vocoder models, outperforming
WaveNet and WaveGlow in both ground truth (GT) reconstruc-
tion and text-to-speech (TTS) synthesis, and (3) ofﬁcial reposi-
tory: HiFi-GAN publicly shares a well-maintained ofﬁcial im-
plementation [18].
The HiFi-GAN generator takes a mel spectrogram input and
expands it while reducing the number of channels by alternat-
1https://moneybrain-research.github.io/
gan-vocoder .arXiv:2103.05236v2  [cs.SD]  23 Aug 2021
Figure 1: Proposed architecture: overall generator (left), residual net (middle), and residual block (right). With the ﬁrst convolution of
a large kernel size and the third convolution of exponentially increasing dilation, the receptive ﬁeld grows to 8369 samples by the 12th
block. The residual net wires WaveNet-like skip connections from every residual block to the 1 1 convolution postnet.
ing transposed-convolution-based upsamplings and multi-path
residual blocks called multi-receptive ﬁeld fusion (MRF). MRF
processes multiple patterns of various lengths from the input
to the residual block at once in a parallelized manner. As to
both generator and discriminator implementations for our ex-
periment, we refer to the ofﬁcial project repository [18].
MelGAN was the ﬁrst demonstration that a GAN vocoder
can achieve a performance that comes close to that of WaveG-
low [5]. For every level in the upsampling process, it pairs a
residual stack of three dilated convolution layers and a trans-
posed convolution. This design now serves as a standard base-
line for subsequent GAN vocoders due to its simplicity and ef-
fectiveness. For our experiment, the MelGAN generator of the
ofﬁcial project repository is utilized [19].
Parallel WaveGAN (PWGAN) and its enhanced variation
that applies a perceptually weighted mask to spectrogram when
computing losses [15] generate audio by taking a Gaussian
noise. This is a critical difference from four existing GAN
vocoders in Table 1 (except for ours) where the output results
from upsampling a mel spectrogram without employing a latent
variable. In addition, PWGAN employs a strictly WaveNet-like
but non-causal architecture as a generator, contrasting against
more MelGAN-like vocoders such as V ocGAN and Universal
MelGAN (UMGAN). We use an unofﬁcial but well-maintained
implementation [20].
The overall architecture of the UMGAN generator is simi-
lar to that of MelGAN, consisting of residual stacks and trans-
posed convolution upsampling layers. But within each of the
residual blocks, UMGAN adopts a gated activation unit (GAU),
similarly to WaveNet and PWGAN. There is no available imple-
mentation of UMGAN so we construct its generator ourselves
as reported in [14]. For missing details, we refer to MelGAN
and MultiBand MelGAN [21], which are the baseline models of
UMGAN.
V ocGAN is different from the other state-of-the-art GAN
vocoders in that it is originally designed to utilize both the ﬁ-
nal output and the intermediate outputs of the generator as the
target of discrimination. It has a longer upsampling sequence
of 4, 4, 2, 2, 2, 2than the usual MelGAN style of
8, 8, 2, 2and requires auxiliary conditioning from a mel
spectrogram for the last four residual blocks. Since there is no
available ofﬁcial repository, an unofﬁcial implementation [22]
is adopted for our experiment.3. Proposed Architecture
We propose a generator architecture of our own. Each residual
block is constructed similarly to [23], which efﬁciently widens
the receptive ﬁeld by conjoining two convolution layers that
process patterns over temporal axis and frequency axis respec-
tively. In our proposed method, the ﬁrst layer performs group-
wise convolution, enabling a very large kernel size with a small
number of parameters. The second convolution layer has a
standard kernel size of 3 but with an exponentially increasing
dilation. In between the two layers, we introduce 1 1 con-
volution that mixes up the information between channels. Ev-
ery convolution layer output is followed by the non-linearity of
LeakyReLU with slope of 0.1. The residual connection is made
between the block input and the output of the in-between 1 1
convolution layer. The architecture is illustrated in Figure 1.
Mel spectrogram upsampling is done by alternating nearest-
neighbor upsampling and 1D convolution layer with the kernel
size of 3. We use nearest-neighbor upsampling over transposed
convolution as [24, 25] report various advantages (e.g. less dis-
tortion in the frequency domain, less checkerboard artifacts, and
better preservation of information from low resolution). Up-
sampling is done in 8 , 8, 2, 2following the MelGAN
procedure, and the upsampled mel is added element-wise to the
input to every block.
The purpose behind the proposed architecture is to rein-
force the diversity of the six generators so as to further test
the generality of the multi-resolution discriminating framework.
The proposed generator can be interpreted to be a mixture of
varying generators; it takes a MelGAN-like simple residual
architecture, WaveNet-like skip connection from all the inter-
mediate layers to the ultimate 1 1 convolution layer, and a
PWGAN-like latent-variable-dependent process with mel spec-
trogram as a guiding condition.
4. Experiments
We use the LJSpeech dataset [26], consisting of 13,100 English
utterances of a single female speaker with a total duration of
approximately 24 hours. It is split into a training set of 12,950
ﬁles and a validation set of 150 ﬁles. The latter is not used
for training, preserved only for evaluation. The audio format
is 16-bit PCM with a sample rate of 22.05 kHz. The dataset is
employed as is without any modiﬁcation.
Aside from the varying generator, we strictly follow the V2
Table 1: Summary of the six models employed for our experiment. The reported numbers of parameters concern only the generators,
and the training speeds are recorded when training each generator paired with the HiFi-GAN V2 discriminating framework. We average
the elapsed time from the beginning to the stoppage at 700k steps per batch. The inference speed is computed by averaging the elapsed
time of synthesizing 150 evaluation GT mel spectrograms.
Parameter Training speed Inference speed Input type
HiFi-GAN 928,514 .61 s / batch .0058 s / sample Mel spectrogram
MelGAN 4,266,050 .58 s / batch .0033 s / sample Mel spectrogram
PWGAN 1,320,442 .82 s / batch .0098 s / sample Gaussian noise (+ mel)
UMGAN 93,077,506 1.09 s / batch .0035 s / sample Mel spectrogram
V ocGAN 4,715,698 .61 s / batch .0085 s / sample Mel spectrogram
Ours 1,209,590 .78 s / batch .0048 s / sample Gaussian noise (+ mel)
conﬁguration of HiFi-GAN with respect to the data processing
procedure, the discriminating mechanism, and the loss compo-
sition, as proposed in [17] and as speciﬁed in [18]. We adopt
the V2 conﬁguration over V1 since its reported performance is
not much different from that of the optimal V1, it is a straight-
forwardly smaller version of V1 (V3 introducing more funda-
mental changes), and it trains more quickly than V1.
80-band mel spectrograms are computed with the FFT size,
the window size, and the hop size set to 1024, 1024, and 256,
respectively. We use the AdamW optimizer [27] with 1= 0.8,
2= 0.99, and the weight decay of = 0.01. The learning rate
decays by 0.999 every epoch, starting from 2e-4. The batch
size is set to 16. Since the ﬁve existing GAN vocoders [12, 13,
14, 16, 17] originally report a wide range of numbers of training
steps from 400k to 2.5M, we set the stoppage to an approximate
midpoint (700k steps) for all the six models of our experiment.
To evaluate the audio quality, 20 sentences are randomly
selected out of the 150 evaluation samples disjoint from train-
ing. We then compute the mel spectrograms of the chosen ut-
terances and have each of the vocoders synthesize them back to
raw waveforms. In addition to the GT mel spectrogram-based
vocoding, we use Tacotron 2 [28] to test the performances of the
six generators against the TTS output. To this end, the Pytorch
example implementation of Tacotron 2 [29] and its pretrained
weights [30] are employed.
Given 6 vocoders, 20 GT-based syntheses, and 20 TTS-
based syntheses, 240 synthesized utterances are obtained in to-
tal. We then add 100 of the 150 evaluation samples (these are
original human utterances with no vocoding involved) to the set;
the samples corresponding to the 20 sentences used for GT- and
TTS-based syntheses are ﬁrst included, and the remaining 80
are randomly chosen. The resulting ﬁnal test set thus contains
340 utterances in a random order. All the audio clips are nor-
malized to the equal loudness of -21 dB to prevent the inﬂuence
of audio volume differences.
Each of the randomly shufﬂed 340 samples is assigned to
30 unique subjects via Amazon Mechanical Turk (AMT) [31].
The participants are asked to evaluate the audio ﬁles regarding
their naturalness (i.e. human-sounding) on a ﬁve-point Likert
scale (1: Bad, 2: Poor, 3: Fair, 4: Good, 5: Excellent). The total
number of raters who participated is 189. To avoid any response
bias, we use the AMT template of audio naturalness as is with
no modiﬁcation and accept all the collected responses without
rejection on a ﬁrst-come-ﬁrst-serve basis.
In addition to the qualitative method, the mel cepstral dis-
tortion (MCD) [32] is utilized to evaluate the models by a quan-
titative measure. For all the pairs of the GT and the corre-
sponding synthesized utterances, we represent them as mel-
frequency cepstral coefﬁcients (MFCC). Additionally, dynamictime warping is applied to align the MFCC sequences of TTS-
based syntheses to their GT pairs (the GT-based syntheses are
aligned to their correspondences by default) as in [33]. We use
13 coefﬁcients excluding the ﬁrst coefﬁcient. Before comput-
ing MCD, all audio clips are normalized to have mean of 0 and
standard deviation of 1 to minimize the volume differences.
5. Results
In Table 2, the MOS scores of the six generators are distributed
in an extreme vicinity of one another for both TTS-based and
GT-based syntheses. For either case, the conﬁdence interval
of the best performing model (ours) overlaps with that of the
worst performing model (PWGAN in MOS GTand MelGAN
inMOS TTS) despite a large number of collected answers (600)
per model; no single model is therefore signiﬁcantly outper-
forming or underperforming.
Table 2: Comparison of generators by MOS and MCD. The re-
sults are synthesized from both GT mel spectrograms (left) and
Tacotron2 TTS outputs (right). GT* denotes MOS tests on orig-
inal (not synthesized) audio ﬁles.
MOS GTMOS TTS
HiFi-GAN 3.985 .065 3.657.082
MelGAN 3.995 .065 3.580.079
UMGAN 3.997 .067 3.615.077
V ocGAN 3.980 .066 3.700.076
PWGAN 3.938 .074 3.650.079
Ours 4.028.065 3.708.075
GT* 4.132 .028
MCD GTMCD TTS
HiFi-GAN 6.425 .050 12.937.145
MelGAN 6.160 .050 12.850.138
UMGAN 5.365.059 12.824.138
V ocGAN 6.500 .050 13.023.140
PWGAN 6.196 .055 12.882.137
Ours 6.680.052 13.013.136
In the case of the TTS-based syntheses, the MCD values in
Table 2 show a similar pattern; all the models are once again
within the conﬁdence intervals of one another. Therefore, in an
actual TTS application where utterances are inferred based on
unseen texts, the synthesis quality will be similar both quanti-
tatively and qualitatively amongst the six vocoders. The MCD
scores of the GT-based syntheses, however, are the only case of
the four types of measures, in which the models show statisti-
Figure 2: L1 reconstruction loss on mel spectrograms over time;
training (top) and validation (bottom). X-axis unit is batch step.
cally signiﬁcant differences.
The differences in the quantitative performance of the GT-
based synthesis amongst the six generators are better illustrated
in Figure 2 (since the mel spectrogram error is computed as
an L1 loss between a GT sample and the corresponding recon-
struction, one can interpret it as the model performance on GT
mel spectrogram over time). Three groups are observed: (1)
UMGAN does consistently best from early on for both training
and validation errors, (2) MelGAN and PWGAN follow, and
(3) HiFi-GAN, V ocGAN, and our proposed model constitute
the last group. Although the heaviest UMGAN shows the best
performance, the subsequent models’ performances are not in
the order of the numbers of parameters. We thus observe no
clear factor that explains the differences in MCD GT.
6. Discussion
Architecture-wise, the six generators differ in many aspects:
MRF of HiFi-GAN, axial residual block and nearest-neighbor
upsampling of our proposed model, UMGAN’s GAU residual
block adapted to MelGAN-like architecture, and a longer up-
sampling sequence and auxiliary mel conditioning of V ocGAN,
to mention a few. Input-wise, PWGAN and our proposed model
take a noise latent and shape it into a waveform while others
upsample directly from a mel spectrogram. The capacities of
the six generators greatly vary as well. Given these consid-
erable differences, it is unexpected that the vocoders achieve
highly similar performances, failing to demonstrate distinguish-
able scores for three out of the four metrics. Noticeable is the
original HiFi-GAN generator neither performing prominently
nor training/inferring quickly. It shows no sign of advantage
from being paired with its intended discriminator pair.
Our conjecture is that the important common traits amongst
the six generators are (1) effective capturing of long dependen-
cies in the audio and (2) dense wiring that exposes every layer
closely to the gradients from the ﬁnal loss. As long as these pri-mary conditions are met, other architectural details do not seem
to affect the vocoded outcome signiﬁcantly. While recent stud-
ies closely link generators and discriminators and explicate their
interactions to minute details, the experimental results suggest
a different possibility: given a well-established multi-resolution
discriminating framework and an operating generator, the ar-
chitectural details might not be critical factors of the vocoder
performance.
Note that the original discriminator of UMGAN determines
real/fake based on spectral representations of GT utterances and
predictions as well as their raw waveforms. V ocGAN requires
intermediate and ﬁnal waveform representations from its gen-
erator for discrimination. Although paired with a discriminat-
ing system that examines only the ﬁnal output waveform here,
both UMGAN and V ocGAN generators achieve qualitative and
quantitative scores just as high as other generators. The im-
plication here is that the multi-resolution discriminating frame-
work is applicable even across various forms of representations:
raw waveform, spectral representation, and intermediate net-
work features.
From the experiment, we can see that the light generators
of HiFI-GAN, PWGAN, and our proposed one show compara-
ble performances to those of heavier models such as MelGAN,
V ocGAN and even UMGAN that is 9 to 10 times larger. In ad-
dition, the MelGAN generator, despite being an earlier and sim-
pler instance, does just as well as more modern designs. This
observation implies the fact that the capacity and the wiring of
the generator have already been sufﬁciently powerful since Mel-
GAN. Therefore, increasing the number of channels, the num-
ber of layers, or the number of blocks might not be a key to
further advancing the vocoder performance.
We believe that the ﬁndings above are applicable beyond
vocoding. Given the powerful generality of the multi-resolution
discriminating framework, it is highly likely to improve vari-
ous GAN-based speech tasks such as speech synthesis, voice
conversion, speech enhancement, and singing synthesis among
others.
7. Conclusions
In this work, we pair the HiFi-GAN multi-resolution discrim-
inating framework with ﬁve different generators of the latest
GAN vocoders. Our proposed generator is added to the set
to enhance the overall variety of the six generators’ architec-
tural characteristics. MOS and MCD evaluations are performed
on GT-based and TTS-based syntheses of the vocoders, and
in three of the four metrics, we observe no sign of statistical
difference in their performances despite their widely different
structures. This ﬁnding questions what really matters in creat-
ing a high-ﬁdelity speech signal from a mel spectrogram in a
GAN setting and supports the hypothesis that the deciding fac-
tor lies in the multi-resolution discriminating framework. From
the experiment, we make three noteworthy observations: (1)
the multi-resolution discriminating framework can be general-
ized across different generators of varying design philosophy,
(2) the multi-resolution discriminating framework can be gen-
eralized across various forms of targets (i.e. spectrogram, raw
waveform, or intermediate representation) to be discriminated,
and (3) the capacity and the wiring of the generator have al-
ready been sufﬁciently powerful since MelGAN. Observing the
strong generality of the multi-resolution discriminating frame-
work, we expect it to be effective in various other GAN-based
speech tasks.
8. References
[1] A. Oord, S. Dieleman, H. Zen, K. Simonyan, O. Vinyals,
A. Graves, N. Kalchbrenner, A. Senior, and K. Kavukcuoglu,
“Wavenet: a generative model for raw audio,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1609.03499 , 2016.
[2] N. Kalchbrenner, E. Elsen, K. Simonyan, S. Noury,
N. Casagrande, E. Lockhart, F. Stimberg, A. Oord, S. Dieleman,
and K. Kavukcuoglu, “Efﬁcient neural audio synthesis,” Proceed-
ings of Machine Learning Research (PMLR) , pp. 2410–2419,
2018.
[3] W. Ping, K. Peng, and J. Chen, “Clarinet: parallel wave gener-
ation in end-to-end text-to-speech,” International Conference on
Learning Representations (ICLR) , 2019.
[4] A. Oord, Y . Li, I. Babuschkin, K. Simonyan, O. Vinyals,
K. Kavukcuoglu, G. Driessche, E. Lockhart, L. Cobo, F. Stim-
berg, N. Casagrande, D. Grewe, S. Noury, S. Dieleman, E. Elsen,
N. Kalchbrenner, H. Zen, A. Graves, H. King, T. Walters,
D. Belov, and D. Hassabis, “Parallel wavenet: fast high-ﬁdelity
speech synthesis,” International Conference on Machine Learn-
ing (ICML) , pp. 3915–3923, 2018.
[5] R. Prenger, R. Valle, and B. Catanzaro, “Waveglow: a ﬂow-
based generative network for speech synthesis,” IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing
(ICASSP) , pp. 3617–3621, 2019.
[6] S. Kim, S. Lee, J. Song, J. Kim, and S. Yoon, “Flowavenet : a
generative ﬂow for raw audio,” Proceedings of Machine Learning
Research (PMLR) , vol. 97, pp. 3370–3378, 2019.
[7] N. Chen, Y . Zhang, H. zen, R. Weiss, M. Norouzi, and W. Chan,
“Wavegrad: estimating gradients for waveform generation,” Inter-
national Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) , 2021.
[8] Z. Kong, W. Ping, J. Huang, K. Zhao, and B. Catanzaro, “Dif-
fwave: a versatile diffusion model for audio synthesis,” Interna-
tional Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) , 2021.
[9] I. Goodfellow, J. Pouget-Abadie, M. Mirza, B. Xu, D. Warde-
Farley, S. Ozair, A. Courville, and Y . Bengio, “Generative adver-
sarial nets,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems
(NeurIPS) , 2014.
[10] C. Donahue, J. McAuley, and M. Puckette, “Adversarial audio
synthesis,” International Conference on Learning Representa-
tions (ICLR) , 2019.
[11] C. Lee, A. Toffy, G. Jung, and W. Han, “Conditional wavegan,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:1809.10636 , 2018.
[12] K. Kumar, R. Kumar, T. Boissiere, L. Gestin, W. Teoh, J. Sotelo,
A. Brebisson, Y . Bengio, and A. Courville, “Melgan: generative
adversarial networks for conditional waveform synthesis,” Ad-
vances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) , pp.
14 881–14 892, 2019.
[13] R. Yamamoto, E. Song, and J. Kim, “Parallel wavegan: A
fast waveform generation model based on generative adversar-
ial networks with multi-resolution spectrogram,” IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing
(ICASSP) , pp. 6199–6203, 2020.
[14] W. Jang, D. Lim, and J. Yoon, “Universal melgan: a robust neu-
ral vocoder for high-ﬁdelity waveform generation in multiple do-
mains,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2011.09631 , 2020.
[15] E. Song, R. Yamamoto, M. Hwang, J. Kim, O. Kwon, and J. Kim,
“Improved parallel wavegan vocoder with perceptually weighted
spectrogram loss,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2101.07412 , 2021.
[16] J. Yang, J. Lee, Y . Kim, H. Cho, and J. Kim, “V ocgan: a high-
ﬁdelity real-time vocoder with a hierarchically-nested adversarial
network,” INTERSPEECH , pp. 200–204, 2020.
[17] J. Kong, J. Kim, and J. Bae, “Hiﬁ-gan: Generative adversarial net-
works for efﬁcient and high ﬁdelity speech synthesis,” Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) , pp. 1268–
1272, 2020.
[18] J. Kong, “Ofﬁcial repository of hiﬁ-gan,” https://github.com/
jik876/hiﬁ-gan/, accessed: 2021-03-01.[19] W. Teoh, “Ofﬁcial repository of melgan,” https://github.com/
descriptinc/melgan-neurips/, accessed: 2021-03-01.
[20] T. Hayashi, “Unofﬁcial repository of parallel wavegan,” https://
github.com/kan-bayashi/ParallelWaveGAN/, accessed: 2021-03-
01.
[21] G. Yang, S. Yang, K. Liu, P. Fang, W. Chen, and L. Xie, “Multi-
band melgan: faster waveform generation for high-quality text-to-
speech,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.05106 , 2020.
[22] Rishikesh, “Unofﬁcial repository of vocgan,” https://github.com/
rishikksh20/V ocGAN/, accessed: 2021-03-01.
[23] J. You, G. Nam, D. Kim, and G. Chae, “Axial residual net-
works for cyclegan-based voice conversion,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2102.08075 , 2021.
[24] J. Pons, S. Pascual, G. Cengarle, and J. Serra, “Upsampling arti-
facts in neural audio synthesis,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.14356 ,
2020.
[25] R. Child, “Very deep vaes generalize autoregressive mod-
els and can outperform them on images,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2011.10650 , 2020.
[26] K. Ito, “The lj speech dataset,” https://keithito.com/
LJ-Speech-Dataset/, accessed: 2021-03-01.
[27] I. Loshchilov and F. Hutter, “Decoupled weight decay regulariza-
tion,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1711.05101 , 2017.
[28] J. Shen, R. Pang, R. Weiss, M. Schuster, N. Jaitly, Z. Yang,
Z. Chen, Y . Zhang, Y . Wang, R. Skerry-Ryan, R. Saurous,
Y . Agiomyrgiannakis, and Y . Wu, “Natural tts synthesis by con-
ditioning wavenet on mel spectrogram predictions,” IEEE Inter-
national Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing
(ICASSP) , pp. 4779–4783, 2018.
[29] G. Karch, “The tacotron2 repository,” https://github.com/
NVIDIA/DeepLearningExamples/tree/master/PyTorch/
SpeechSynthesis/Tacotron2/, accessed: 2021-03-01.
[30] “Tacotron2 pytorch checkpoint (fp32),” https://ngc.nvidia.com/
catalog/models/nvidia:tacotron2 pytckpt fp32/, accessed: 2021-
03-01.
[31] “Amazon mechanical turks,” https://www.mturk.com/, accessed:
2021-03-01.
[32] R. Kubichek, “Mel-cepstral distance measure for objective speech
quality assessment,” IEEE Paciﬁc Rim Conference on Communi-
cations, Computers and Signal Processing , pp. 125–128, 1993.
[33] E. Battenberg, S. Mariooryad, D. Stanton, R. Skerry-Ryan,
M. Shannon, D. Kao, and T. Bagby, “Effective use of variational
embedding capacity in expressive end-to-end speech synthesis,”
International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) ,
2020.
